Stanford University www.stanford.edu
This program comes to you from Stanford University, please visit us on the site above
clap
Thank you
(Steve Jobs - CEO of Apple and Pixar)
I am honored to meet you today, to start you at one of the oldest universities in the world
acclaim
In fact, I have never graduated from college and this is the closest thing I have ever had as a university graduate.
[Laughter]
Today, I want to tell you three stories from my life. This is nothing big just three stories.
The first story is about connecting points.
She withdrew from the University of Reed after the first six months, then remained on the decline for about eighteen months or so, before I actually resigned.
The question why pulled out?
It all started before I was born
My biological mom was a young single graduate, and she decided to put me up for adoption.
I felt strongly that I had to be adopted by college graduates,
So everything was intended for me to be adopted at birth by my lawyer and his wife.
However, the moment I leave and at the last minute, the couple decided that they wanted a girl.
Until my parents, who were waiting, got a call in the middle of the night asking:
"We've got an unexpected baby, do you want it?" They said: "Of course."
My biological mom later discovered that my adoptive mother had never graduated from any university and my father had never graduated from high school.
At the time, she refused to sign the latest adoption papers.
After a few months, I gave in, when my adoptive parents made a pledge to go to university. This was the beginning of my life.
After seventeen years, I really went to university. But naively I chose an expensive university like Stanford University,
All my working-class parents' savings were spent on my college education.
Six months later, I can no longer see the benefit of this.
I had no idea what I wanted to do in my life nor how the university would help me find out.
And here I had spent all my parents' savings that they had collected all their lives.
So I decided to withdraw and I was confident that everything would be good.
It was pretty scary at the same time, but looking back, it was one of my best choices.
[Laughter]
The moment I pulled out I could stop taking classes that didn't interest me,
And to start falling on those that interest me the most.
Not all were romantic. I did not have a bedroom, I slept on the floor in friends ’rooms, and I exchanged Coca-Cola bottles for 5 cents to buy food in them.
I was able to walk seven miles across the city every Sunday night to get one good meal at Harry Krishna Temple.
I love that
Many of the things I stumbled by following my intuition and curiosity later revealed to me that they were worthless
An example is:
Red University at the time exhibited the city's best educational handwriting
Everywhere on campus and every poster, and in every staircase, it was beautiful handwriting.
Because I pulled out and didn't take the regular classes, I decided to join the line learning classes.
I learned about thin letters and without thin letters, and about the difference in the distance between the different letters,
And solutions to what makes great printing great.
She was beautiful, historical, artistic, accurate in a way that science could not capture, and found her charming.
None of this had even had hope of being applied in my working life.
But after ten years when we were designing the first Makitosh computer, it all came back to me.
And we designed everything with Mac OS. The first computer was a beautiful typography.
If I hadn't taken back one course at the university,
Mac wouldn't have multiple lines and relative spacing for fonts.
And because Windows has copied the fonts from Mac, it is possible that there is neither a personal computer nor a PC.
[Laughing and applause]
If I hadn't withdrawn, I wouldn't have entered the class learning the line,
Personal computers did not have these beautiful fonts that you work on.
Of course it was impossible to connect the points I was looking forward to when I was in college.
But it was very, very clear looking back after ten years.
Again, you cannot tie the points by looking forward: only when you look back you can connect them.
So you have to trust that the points will somehow relate to your future.
You have to trust something - your courage, your destiny, the consequence of life, whatever it is.
Because believing that the points will be connected to the path of your life will give you confidence to follow your heart,
Even when it drives you out of the well-known road, which would make the difference.
My second story is about love and loss.
I was lucky - I found the thing I loved to do early in life.
Wooz and I started with Apple in the garage of Alday when I was twenty years old.
We worked hard, and within ten years, Apple had grown from just two who worked in a garage to a company estimated at two billion dollars with a number of employees exceeding four thousand employees.
We were just unveiling our best - Macintosh - a year ago, and it just turned thirty.
Then I was fired.
How do you get fired from a company you built?
Well, when Apple was getting older I hired someone I thought was talented to run the company with me,
For a year or so, things were going well
But then our vision for the future began to divide, and ultimately we failed.
When we failed, the board members stood in his side.
And this is when I was thirty, I was expelled. And in a very open way.
The center of my life as an adult was not gone, and it was destroyed.
I really didn't know what to do in the coming months
I felt like I had let down the previous generation of business - that I dropped the stick while it was being passed to me.
I met David Packard and Bob Noice and tried to apologize for my severe failure.
I was publicly unsuccessful, and I even thought of running away from the place.
But slowly something appeared to me - I still love what I do.
The turn of events at Apple has never changed, I have been rejected, but I still love what I do.
So I decided to start over.
I did not see her at the time, but it became clear to me that my expulsion from Apple was the best thing that could happen to me.
The weight of my success has been replaced by the lightness of being a beginner again, and less sure of everything.
It freed me to enter one of the most creative periods of my life.
Over the next five years, I started with a company I named Next, and another one named Pixar.
I fell in love with the most amazing woman to be my wife later.
Pixar's direction was to create the first computer animation movie, game story, and is now the most successful animation studio of the year.
[Applause and rejoicing]
In a noticeable turn of events, Apple bought Next, and so I returned to Apple,
The technology we developed at Next is at the heart of Apple's current renaissance.
Lauren is my wife and I have a wonderful family together
I am very sure that none of these things would have happened if I hadn't been fired from Apple.
It was awful to taste the medicine, but I think the patient needs it.
Sometimes life beats us on the head with a brick.
do not lose hope . I am convinced that the thing that kept me going was my love for what I do.
You have to find what you love. This is true for work as it is for those you love.
Your work will fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is a great job.
The only way to do a great job is to love what you do.
If you haven't found it yet, keep looking and don't calm down.
As with all matters of the heart, you will know when you find the right job.
And like any special relationship, you will get the best and the best over time.
So keep looking and don't live.
[ clap ]
My third story is about death.
When I was seventeen years old, I read a quote that contains something like this:
"If you lived every day as if it were the last day of your life, there will come a day when you will be right."
[Laughter]
This had a huge impact on myself, and since that time, over the past thirty-three years, I look in the mirror every morning and ask myself:
"If today had been the last day of my life - would I have done what I intend to do on this day?"
Whatever my answer was 'no' for several days, at the time I knew I needed to change something.
Remember the fact that I was going to die soon was the most confronted tool to help me make the big decisions in my life
Because almost everything - great hopes, pride, fear of pilgrimage and failure
These things just hide in the face of death, leaving only what is really important.
Reminding yourself that you are going to die is the best way to avoid falling into the trap of thinking that you have something to lose.
You are really naked. There is no reason why you should not follow your heart.
About a year ago, I was diagnosed with cancer.
I had a medical survey at 7:30 in the morning, which clearly showed my tumor in the pancreas.
I wouldn’t know what the pancreas really is then.
The team of doctors told me that my illness is incurable and that I have 3 to 6 months to live.
My doctor’s advice was to go home and arrange my affairs, and it was the doctor’s code to tell me to prepare for death.
This means that I try and tell my children everything I thought I had ten years to tell them what I wanted to say to them in just a few months.
And to prepare everything for my family so that my departure is easy for them.
This means that I bid everyone farewell.
I lived with this medical diagnosis all day.
Later in the evening I went to take a sample of this tumor for analysis, by inserting a speculum from my mouth and through my throat to my stomach and behind my intestine,
And through a needle that penetrated the pancreas to take cells from the tumor,
I was drugged, but my wife, who was present, told me that when the doctors looked at these cells extracted from me under the telescope, they started crying with joy.
Because the tumor was a very rare type of treatment with surgical intervention.
I had the surgery and removed the tumor and I'm fine now.
[clap]
This was my first encounter with death, and I hope it will remain so for many decades to come.
Being alive from this experience, I can now say this advice about the reality of experience - rather than a metaphorical analogy or idea that you are trying to imagine:
Nobody wants to die. Even those who want to go to heaven do not want to die to go there.
Nevertheless, death is the end that we all share. And no one can escape from it.
And so how should it be, because death is the best invention of life.
It is a life change factor. It erases the old to give way to the new.
Currently the new one is you, but someday not far from today, you will gradually become the old one and be erased.
Sorry for being a dramatic, sad, but appointed truth.
Your time is limited, so do not waste your life in someone else's life.
Do not be trapped in belief - living according to what other people's minds have found.
Do not let the noise of other people's opinions rise above your inner voice.
Most importantly, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition.
They somehow honestly know what they want to be
And everything else is secondary.
[clap]
When I was young, there was an amazing book called "The Whole Earth Catalog" that was a book parent for my generation of young adults.
It was authored by Stuart Brand in a place not far from here in Menlo Park, and he brought it back to life with his poetic touches.
This was in the late 1960s, before personal computers and desktop publishing, and it was all made using typewriters, scissors, and instant Polaroid cameras.
It was like providing Google’s services through paper, 35 years before Google came to us, it was an ideal book, full of technical tools and great ideas.
Stewart and his companions developed several versions of the "The Whole Earth Catalog"
After taking his time and it's time for the last version, they worked hard to design the last issue
It was in the mid 1970's - when I was your age.
And in the last cover of the last issue was a picture that showed a beautiful agricultural road in the morning, the kind you would have to carry your bag and stop the cars on the way to take you to it if you were the adventurous type.
With this spectacular scene, a sentence came under the picture saying: "Stay hungry - stay foolish." To be the whole farewell of them to their readers.
Stay hungry. Be a fool. I always wish this thing to myself.
Now, as you graduate to start again, I hope so for you too.
Stay hungry. Keep a fool.
Thank you all .
[clap]
[Stanford University - www.stanford.edu]
Copyright for the former program of Stanford University
Please visit our website at stanford.edu